# Study Questions

## Page 3
#### 1. Suppose you want to add unary operations (i.e., ones requiring only one operand) to the calculator. For example, we might add "M" to indicate unary minus (i.e., change the sign of the old value) and "A" to indicate absolute value. What changes would need to be made to the program?

Create a new operator that works on the stored value and doesn't require the program to read a second operand. 

##### 2. Suppose that words rather than single character symbols are to be used for the operators (e.g., the user types "times" instead of "*"). Where in the program would the necessary changes occur?

The changes would occur where the program reads and interprets the operator input, since it would need to accept strings (rather than single characters) and match them to the corresponding operations. 

##### 3.  Suppose that the calculator is to be converted to use C++ double values rather than integers. Where would changes need to be made?

You would need to change the input variable to be able to take in a double, essentially just declaring the input variable as a double. 

#### 4. Most modern systems support graphical displays and mouse (or other pointer) input. Rewrite the Calculator program to take advantage of these features to produce an on-screen push-button calculator (this is a large programming project).
**erm no**

#### 5. Show how a new command, "C", which acts like the "Clear" command on a calculator could be implemented. The clear command sets the current value to zero.
```
char op;
if (op == 'C') {
    value = 0;
}
```

#### 6. (AB only) How could the calculator be modified to allow the use of parentheses to control the order of operations?

The program would be modified to parse the input to recognize parentheses, evaluating the expression inside the parenthesis first and replace them with their result before continuing the remaining operations.

## Page 6
#### 1. What are the largest and smallest integer values in the programming environment you use?
The largest integer value is 32767 and the smallest integer value is -32767

#### 2. Each BigInt object will need to store the digits that represent the BigInt value. The decision to allow arbitrarily large BigInt values affects the choices for storing digits. Name one method for storing digits that will permit an arbitrary number of digits to be stored. What effect would a limit on the number of digits in a BigInt have in the design of the BigInt class?
You could store the digits in a dynamic array or list (like a vector or array list) so it can grow as needed. If there was a fixed digit size, you could use a fixed-size array, but there would need to be overflow checks, and it wouldn't really support very large numbers.

#### 3. Based on your knowledge of pencil-and-paper methods for doing arithmetic, what do you think will be the most difficult arithmetic operation (+, *, !) to implement for the BigInt class? Why?
Multiplication ($*$) would be the hardest. This is because of the amount of carrying and shifting when multiplying every digit in one number with every digit in the other number, this is unlike addition and subtraction which are more straight forward.

#### 4. Experiment with the calculator. If you enter abcd1234 when a number is expected, what happens? If you enter 1234abcd is the behavior different? What happens if you enter an operator that’s not one of the three that are implemented?
Letters before digits is an invalid input, and is turned into a `0`, digits before letters is valid on the other hand. Invalid inputs for the operators are rejected, and the user is re-prompted until a valid one is entered. 

#### 5. List as many operations as you can that are performed on integers, but that are not included in the list of BigInt functions and operators above.

#### 6. (AB only) What implementation decisions would require providing a destructor, a copy constructor, and an assignment operator?

#### 7. Consider the headers for operator! and operator+ given below.


## Page 10
#### 1. Consider the error handling provided by your C++ system. What does the system do if a file is not present in a call to open? What happens on integer overflow or divide by zero? Determine which method(s) are used and discuss the relative desirability of other options.

#### 2. List several errors that might be generated by BigInt operations and develop a declaration for an enumerated type (enum) to hold the errors.

#### 3. Some systems allow error checking to be “turned off” entirely for greater speed. Under what circumstances is this approach preferred?

#### 4. Consider another method for handling errors:

#### 5. Consider another method for handling errors:

## Page 17
#### 1. Why is a char vector used to store digits rather than an int vector? How will a change in the kind of element stored in the vector affect the implementation of all BigInt member functions.

#### 2. We have chosen an enum for storing the sign of a BigInt. Describe two alternatives or types other than an enum that can be used to represent the sign of a BigInt.

#### 3. Write the function GetDigit based on the description and declarations in this section. What kinds of error should you worry about?

#### 4. Why will it be difficult to write the non-member functions operator == and operator < given the current method for accessing digits using #### GetDigit? Write the function operator == for positive BigInt values assuming that NumDigits and GetDigit are public member functions.

#### 5. (optional) Why is the apvector class a much better choice than the built-in array type given the specification of the BigInt class?